This folder contains the PDF *WireGuardKeyStore vs. WireGuardHSM* which is the Bachelor Thesis this project is based upon. The paper explains in more detail the reasoning behind certain design choices, as well as, a comparison of both Hardware-backed solutions.

# Abstract
Android developers use Android KeyStores to secure the cryptographic keys of their applications. Android KeyStores are implemented by the vendor-specific Keymaster Trusted Application (TA), which is hardware-protected by the Trusted Execution Environment (TEE). Unfortunately, past research has called their security into question by uncovering several vulnerabilities caused by lackluster TEE implementations with proprietary undocumented designs. To free users and developers from this dependency on mobile phone manufacturers, we propose the SmartCard-HSM as a possible replacement for the Keymaster TA. The SmartCard-HSM is an external Hardware-Security Module (HSM) in microSD card format supported on Android devices.

In this work, we assess this alternative by developing a hardware-backed WireGuard (HWWireGuard) implementation, which successfully integrates either device into the package encryption, creating WireGuardKeyStore and WireGuardHSM. During their performance evaluation, we discovered that the SmartCard-HSM operations incurred a performance overhead compared to similar operations using Android KeyStores. 

However, the SmartCard-HSM, while less performant than Android KeyStores, offers several features that can appeal to developers in specific use cases. These cases include
developers who want to create opinionated applications regarding their hardware- backed security. Where WireGuard is cryptographically opinionated, WireGuardHSM is also opinionated regarding the actual hardware-backed implementation used to secure the key storage rather than relying on several vendor-specific implementations, as is the case when using Android KeyStores. Furthermore, it offers cross-platform capabilities and sensitive hardware protection that can lead to the device destroying itself and becoming unusable to protect the stored cryptographic key material.
